Why do people have such a hard time with strategy? Most people are taught strategy is planning. Putting together a comprehensive and sensible list of initiatives and then going doing them. And the reason is it's not strategy. It's planning. And you cannot plan your way to success. If the strategy for your product sucks, there's no real where to play and there's no real how to win. Suddenly as if the shotgun goes on on starter pistol goes on and all of them go on the plane in like five minutes. Get more data, right? Like work with curs or work with GitHub co-pilot. Get the most coding data. Get the most writing data. Are your theories always going to be right? No. The customer to say I'm going to pull money out of my pocket and give it to you instead of somebody else. Can you walk us through how they made a bold where to play and how to win choice that others couldn't copy? Roger Martin is a global authority on strategy, the co-author of Playing to Win, and a former dean at the Rottman School of Management. He's advised Fortune 500 titans like Proctor and Gamble, Lego, and Ford. And his 12 plus books have redefined how leaders approach strategy, myself included. So, in today's episode, I'm honored to have him. We are going to cover everything you need to know to create a winning strategy. For my money, this is one of the most important skills for PMs and builders. So, I hope you'll enjoy it as much as I did. Really quickly, I think a crazy stat is that more than 50% of you listening are not subscribed. If you can subscribe on YouTube, follow on Apple or Spotify podcasts, my commitment to you is that we'll continue to make this content better and better. And now on to today's episode. I'm super excited about this episode, Roger. I feel like you are one of the most important voices on strategy out there. And for product builders, for product managers, strategy is perhaps the most important skill. After 16 years in product management, that is the one thing that I saw really differentiating good from great is understanding strategy. And so today, I want to give people a master class in strategy. And I've heard you say most leaders aren't actually creating strategy, they're budgeting with extra steps. What do you mean by that? Uh that's close to that. They're doing budgets with pros is is what I say. So they're just putting together a financial plan and then their strategy like notionally according to them is that is that they explain the budget with with some pros and and you know that's that's not a a strategy. uh and uh the the key thing about strategy that you have to understand as a as a strategy and and uh a gosh I'm sure you every good product manager you know does this is strategy compels customers to take the desired action. So you do a bunch of things that cause the customer to say I'm going to pull money out of my pocket and give it to you instead of somebody else. um when you put together a list of initiatives or a list of budget items or a list of projects and somehow think that's enough. Um there's a chance it might be they might accidentally fit together and reinforce each other in a in a way that causes customers to to say I'm going to give you my business. I'm not going to give it to somebody else. But generally they don't they're and so strategy at least 90% of strategy out in the world if not 95% of strategy out in the world is a list of laudable uh uh initiatives. If you read down the list, build this factory, hire this many salespeople, install an ERP, you know, kind of whatever, it's uh you could say, well, none of those are stupid. But if they don't fit together in a way that causes customers to say, oh, the offering from those people is better than all these other offerings, then you don't have a strategy. And so my pitch is to to say don't start with a list of initiatives. Start with the question of you know what are you trying to accomplish? What do you want customers to do? Uh where are you going to play therefore and how are you going to uh win while doing that? And the initiatives will fall out of that. The initiatives aren't the input to a strategic plan. They're the outputs of a strategy. And I think product managers are especially liable to fall into this trap because we're builders. We live and thrive off road maps. We've got to create that list of initiatives, that list of road maps. We want it to be so hyper tactical that teams can feel it. That has to come as an output. So what does the inputs look like? What are the steps that come before? Yeah. Well, and you're right. If I if we can just go to product managers for for a while now, and then this is especially the case in Silicon Valley. I do a lot of work in Silicon Valley and and in some sense um product managers are often treated as the silver bullet, the magic silver bullet. I got to get a good product manager and they will and they will make a success out of out of this. And what the people saying that don't really understand is actually they need a strategist, right? and and the great product managers are strategists, but but they don't that that's often not even acknowledged in companies. It's just if I get a good product manager, they don't really know what one looks like other than they've succeeded, right? Um so so what what are the what are the inputs? Well, the the inputs are a for starters a framework in your head that says what would cause a customer to to be compelled to to take the action. uh we would wish and I've come come to the conclusion that it means having answers to five questions and that those five question answers fit together with one and reinforce each other to create that sense of a compelling uh reason for a customer to buy from you and the questions are what's our winning aspiration. So, what are we trying to win at? And why is winning so important to me? Some people think, "Oh, Roger, you're so zero sum game, you know, isn't that isn't that so old-fashioned?" No. The best way to win is to cause cause competitors to decide to win somewhere else. Right. Right. That that's the best and SunSu said that's way the the best the best way to to win is to not fight. Um, and and if you're compelling enough in in what you're doing, other companies will say, "Well, I don't want to do exactly that." Uh, because they're really good at it, and that'll just be a bloody war. That's no fun. So, you got to have an aspiration for being the best at what? Best at in a certain place. That's your where to play. That's the choice. So on this particular playing field or if you're militaristic battlefield um that's where we're going to play and we're not going to play anywhere else there and then you have to answer the how to win. What is my theory by that tells me I will be better than any other player on that particular field. So if a particular field is a particular set of customers who want a particular product or service or offerings in a particular geography right on that playing field we have a way of producing more value for those customers right than anybody else. Therefore we'll win there. But you can't stop there. Often people stop there with strategy and and I say and then they blame it on oh we had bad execution. No, it's because they didn't answer the other two questions, which is what are the must- have capabilities if we're going to win in the way we've chosen to win in the place we've chosen to play. What capabilities do we have to have, right? That other competitors either can't build or won't build. Sometimes it's a won't. Right. Right. Amazon the success is based on a won't in the early days of Amazon if Walmart had said this online thing that is super duper important and would have spent you know hundred billion dollars say in in a short period of time they could have crushed little Amazon like a bug like a tiny little cockroach right but they didn't why not well it It was an irritating thing and a scary thought to think that your 4,500 stores that you'd spend hundreds of billions uh building were not going to be as useful as they as they they used to be, right? So, you say maybe this thing won't really take off. Like maybe that's not actually what customers want. Let's hope. Let's hope. So, that was a won't. They didn't build the capabilities necessary to challenge how you were going to win where you chose to play online retailing. uh a and and the rest is history. Then the final question of the five. So it's what's your winning aspiration, where are you going to play, how are you going to win, what are the must have uh capabilities, and then what are the enabling management systems? How are you going to build and maintain those capabilities on an ongoing basis to win where you've chosen to play to meet the winning aspiration? And I repeat that a couple times to say to say they have to fit together and reinforce one another. You need a strategy that that has those answers fitting together and reinforcing the where to play, right, is perfect for your how to win and your how to win is perfect for your your uh your where to play. Uh, and if you do that, um, you can compel those customers in your where to play to give you, uh, their hard-earned, uh, cash, uh, and not somebody else. This episode is brought to you by work OS. If you're building a SAS app, at some point your customers will start asking for enterprise features like SL authentication and SCIM provisioning. That's where Work OS comes in, making it fast and painless to add enterprise features to your app. Their APIs are easy to understand so that you can ship quickly and get back to building other features. Today, hundreds of companies are already powered by Work OS, including ones you probably know like Versell, Web Flow, and Loom. Work OS also recently acquired Warrant, the fine grained authorization service. Warren's product is based on a groundbreaking authorization system called Zanzibar, which was originally designed for Google to power Google Docs and YouTube. This enables fast authorization checks at enormous scale while maintaining a flexible model that can be adapted to even the most complex use cases. If you're currently looking to build role-based access control or other enterprise features like single sign on, SCIM or user management, you should consider work OS. It's a drop-in replacement for Ozero and supports up to 1 million monthly active users for free. Check it out at works.com/acos to learn more. That's work os.com/ aos. Today's episode is brought to you by Amplitude. Building great digital products is hard. You know that better than anyone. Getting teams aligned, measuring what matters, and scaling your product strategy isn't easy. But what if you had a clear framework to guide your next steps? That's exactly what Amplitude built. They studied the best product teams to understand what really drives impact and turn those insights into the digital experience maturity assessment. In 2 minutes, you'll be able to see where your team stands and what you can improve to build better products faster. Click the link in the caption to take the free assessment and get a clear path to product growth. So that's the core framework. If people have read playing to win, they've they're very well familiar with these five questions. Yes. You've said that business schools aren't teaching this the right way. I myself weren't an MBA spent, I don't know, $200,000 in costs plus I don't know half a million dollars and sacrificed income to go there. So about threequarters of a million dollars to do it. What didn't they teach me with that threequarters of a million dollars that I spent? Well, the acade when did you graduate? Uh 2017. Yeah. Yeah. So in the last 30 years, the business school world has gotten obsessed with something called the resource-based view of the firm. Uh and it basically says uh you know how you win is by by uh having uh kind of these must-have re resources. Um it's it's just did you learn the resourcebased view of the firm? Because that's what's generally taught. You can't get a job in a top 50. you you at a top three uh business school, but you can't get a job in a top 50 business school in America uh if you don't bow down and pay homage to the resource-based view of the firm. The problem is nobody uses it out in the world. I've been consulting for 40 years now. Uh and I've only seen the resource-based view of the firm used once. once uh and it was by a junior Ford person who said, "I learned this at business school. Could this be applicable?" That's the only time I've heard it used. So, it's gotten kind of theoretical and and unhelpfully so. And so, uh and so you're taught and again, I think you can look back at your strategy courses. You were taught a bunch of tools, right? You were taught game theory, right? And you were you were taught resource-based view of the firm. You might have been taught five forces from Mike Mike Py. You might have been taught blue ocean strategies. You're you're taught a bunch of analytical tools uh as if that'll make you a strategist. But, you know, I don't I don't see it doing that. So, if you were constructing a curriculum for someone to learn strategy, what would be the things they needed to learn? I I mean I I literally would would uh teach uh playing to win and and use, as you probably know, I have this playing to win practitioner insight series that's been going for four and a half years now. And so there's 230 or so uh articles in that that make up about six books and they're on how to practice strategy. And I would I would just teach them uh teach them that um and get them to work on strategy, you know, assignments. Uh take this company and ask what is it strategy now? And and uh don't believe what they say in their strategy documents because strategy is what you do, not what you say. That's one of my principles. And so, so I' I' I'd say based on observing what that company is doing, what's their strategy and tell me what it is in in those five boxes because everybody's got one. Uh, and how would you make it better? So, let's do that maybe together. Like if the case study going deep on companies across the five questions is what's going to get people going, go ahead and pause this podcast or pause this video because we're about to talk about anthropic and reveal the answer. But I want you to go through the mental exercise first. Give you the answer and then let's hear from Roger how he might analyze anthropic. So go ahead and hit pause guys and now let's hit play. Roger, tell us a little bit more. How would you analyze anthropic? Well, I for for me I would be uh saying the question asking the question okay in the world of general uh LLM LLM AI let's just call LLM um which you appear to be have decided to play in you're it appears your where to play is not uh some vertical like uh like I'm I'm an investor in in a bunch of AI companies. One is blue J legal and it's in the vertical of of uh uh AI legal I'm an investor in another one Wilson has AI in uh in for investments so so no and anthropic is going up against chat GPT you know uh Google Gemini etc in the in general so their word to play is in in uh general LLM Um, how are you going to win? It seems unclear uh uh to to me a bunch of its competitors are figuring out how to drive traffic to their AI with content, right? And so, was it a absolute shock and surprise to me that X and XAI uh merged? No, that's a method of driving traffic to your LLM and therefore populating it with more data. Well, same with same with Google, same with uh with uh Apple, same with uh Amazon. So, it would appear that the theory of how to win is a little more sort of it's part partially this is going to be more human friendly, which may be the case. I actually like Clo. I I I I uh I use clo for what it's worth. Um um and so then what what capabilities are you depending on? It's presumably um we have the capability to make a most more humanistic uh kind of LLM. Um and it's hardest from the outside to discern management system. Sometimes you can't. I I'm not sure there is anything to to say on there. So for me, I I go back to it and and ask myself the question, what is the probability of anthropic winning in general AI without a source of traffic um that will drive people to it? when you're up against still better funding. They're well funded, but still better funded deep pocketed competitors in the general AI uh general LLM AI uh uh space. And so if I were if I were at at Anthropic, I would be saying, can I win in the big box? If the big box is sort of general horizontal LLM AI, I'm up against folks with deeper pockets with traffic. How am I going to win in that battle? How am I going to create an economic win? And for me, I'd be searching for ways to be narrower to say in this type of use, in this territory of knowledge, whatever, and it's that's hard to tell. Um, I am going to be better. Somebody else might end up being and somebody's else might be end up being bigger. Um, but I'm going to be better. It's not unlike Blue Jay Legal, um, who is not attempting to to, uh, outperform Chad GPT or any anybody else. But Chad GPT is the the, you know, the the favorite these these days in everything, in knowledge, and being able to supply answers. It's attempting to do that in a narrow range of things pertaining to the law where if you've got a user who cares deeply about that, right, they will value the fact that they don't have to deal with all sorts of other extraneous stuff and their large language model will contain the stuff that is pertinent to their question and nothing else and deeper stuff uh in that area than anywhere else. Now, is Blue J Legal ever going to be worth $100 billion, $500 billion, a trillion dollars? No. Um, but I bet it's going to be worth a decent amount. Um, and that might be better than spending tens of billions of dollars attempting to build a LLM AI horizontal business where you'll never figure out how to monetize it because there are other people who have advantage. So, that's that's how I would at least think through uh anthropic. It's it's got to figure out a where to play where there is a plausible how to win. For me, Blue Jay Legal has got a where to play that has a very plausible how to win. In fact, it's it is winning arguably uh in that narrow uh the narrow field. It gets back to it get back to my I was on the board of of Thompson Reuters uh for many uh for many years for 14 years. Um and the best business in that fine company is West Law uh which provides legal search uh for mainly it's mainly for US litigators uh is what it is. Um and it's a multi-billion dollar business super profitable. Um, and one of the concerns and and and they they arose out of being a a law book publisher. So, if you went into any legal library in North America, uh you would see a a whole bunch of Westlaw uh books in the library. And they were smart enough uh in the '9s to say, hm, you know, this is going to go online. And instead of having a librarian go and pull out books and and try and find the the relevant uh cases um uh and there and the reason people liked their law books is they had a system a numbering system that helped you figure out what the cases were about and they would create a little headnote on each case that allowed you to very quickly figure out what it's about. So the law librarians would go in there, follow the numbering system and and come up with with uh with what cases their partner who they were working for uh needed. Some clever person in the '9s said, "You know what? We'll be able to put this all online. All of that stuff can be digitized and put online and then you can the law the the uh legal partner can search for him or herself not ask the librarian to go and go in this this thing and they're brilliant and they did it okay but then along came something called Google right and the question was why would law firms pay big bucks I mean the subscription fees are big bucks to Westlaw law when they can do legal search on Google for free. The answer, as it turned out, and because it's been stable stable business against Google, Google's Google would love to have that that couple billion dollars of high margin revenue. But it turns out that uh when you do the same search on Google as you do on West Law, right, on Google, you come up with the 500 cases that maybe you should be reading and and potentially referencing. And on Weslaw, you come up with seven that you really need to. And that difference between 500 or whatever it is 200 400 57 amounts to so many hours of of the the lawyer's time that they'll pay they'll pay that fee for it. So who's the more powerful company Google or Thompson Reuters Weslaw sub? Google or a couple trill trillion bucks because their where to play is huge. It's search that's big. But uh I think if you wanted to buy Weslaw from from uh Thompson Reuters, I suspect they'd charge you 25 or 30 billion dollars for it. That's nice because they have a where to play with a matched how to win which is we've got this database of cases that go back a 100red years. We've got a proprietary numbering system. We've got 1500 lawyers who every year uh create headnotes for them and and that is of great value to uh uh to customers. So that's I would be thinking about the same thing for anthropic. Do you want to have a small probability of of becoming a a whatever a trillion dollar company or a high probability of becoming a hundred billion dollar company? Yeah, I would say I went through the five steps myself as well. So I'd love to hear how you my reaction to these for anthropics. So for me I think their winning aspiration here um is right to make AI helpful and harmless at scale as you said they're playing in the foundational model space they're where to play here's where I differ a little bit so I looked at their data for 2024 and I compared the revenue of OpenAI and Enthropic in 2024. Yep. Enthropic had a billion dollars in revenue. 70% came from their APIs. Open AAI had $ three and a half billion dollars in revenue. 70% came from consumers. Yeah. So what I'm seeing is that Open AI is definitely winning amongst consumers. If you look at Google search trends, they're at 100. Anthropic or Claude is at two. So it's like a 50x difference on the consumer side. But on the enterprise side, I'm seeing some clear areas where potentially Anthropic could play. So I'm thinking about perfect on the API side for enterprise basically creating enterprisegrade AI assistance. So I talk to VPs of product all the time and they always say yeah product managers they tend to prefer the sonnet 3.7 kind of like you to the chat GPT03 mini high. And so subjectively product managers are preferring that. So, and then the other area I'm seeing it is in coding, which is uh it's powering cursor, bolt, replet, lovable, all these AI prototyping startups that are coming up. So, for me, it kind of seems like it's like writing and coding from the API could potentially be its where to play. And so, then how to win is like get more data, right? Like work with curs, work with GitHub copilot, get the most coding data, get the most writing data, and then also get the best talent. So we see them hiring a lot of exopen AI people or directly poaching the best from open AI and Google and I guess to the must-have capabilities then they have this idea of constitutional AI right where they have a constitution of ethical principles so that's one and then I think they have this really long context window so basically you can you can have way more tokens in claude versus chat GPT and then I guess the final component like supporting systems I'm thinking about is like a really good research product feedback loop with the additional data you have the safety cuz we keep emphasizing that and then I think probably the best thing for them versus let's say a chat GPT cuz they're chat is releasing all the time is maybe a slower roll out because we're trying to be enterprise grade. Yeah. So that's how I thought about it. I love it. I love it. I mean when I said I'm not sure what the where to play should be but it should be narrower. You've picked you've picked a narrower and narrower is not bad. you're picking narrower where to play where they have a plausible chance to be great. And and and why? It's because it's because there are there are tradeoffs their competitors would have to make to to attack them, right? So if actually having slower release cycles or longer release cycles so that it's really enterprisegrade releases, right? But the competitor chat GPT and others wants fast cycle time and we'll fix the bugs as we as we go. No problem. Right? That's something that there's a trade-off if you want to keep your customer uh u your consumer base happy. Right? Hey, let me take a quick break to talk about something that's completely changed my product management workflow. Linear. As a PM, I was drowning in tools. one for planning, another for issue tracking, road maps and sheets, and jumping between Slack, intercom, and app reviews just to piece together customer feedback. Sound familiar? I was spending more time keeping systems in sync than actually building product. Every time development kicked off, my carefully crafted plans would immediately need updating. I was the human API between all our teams, constantly chasing updates and translating between tools. That's why I love Linear. I can capture customer feedback, shape product ideas collaboratively, quarterback crossunctional teams, and monitor development progress in one place. It cuts through the maze of disconnected systems that were complicating my life. Product teams at OpenAI, Verscell, Brex, and Cash App all use linear. If you're tired of spending your days keeping different tools and teams in sync, check out linear at linear.app/partners/ ak. That's linear.app/partners. You're you're going to piss off enterprise. That's the perfect situation, right? The perfect situation. What is that in capabilities? It's not a can't. Chachi BT could do that. They could slow their cycles. It's a what? It's a won't. And won't is often very powerful. Won't happens when there are mixed motives. When you have to give up something you really don't want to give up, right, in order to follow uh the a competitor. And that was, you know, that's that's like Tesla, right? uh you know the the the big auto OEMs had a huge advantage on Tesla in almost everything Tesla started to do right how to build at scale all that kind of stuff but they said no we don't like that because we don't know how to make a buck at it and we know how to make lots of money at ICE let's hope this thing doesn't happen right that's it won't so what your your strategy which I like for what it's worth I like is is protected by a won't I think uh and that's and that's that's what you got to look for in in in strategy. Can my cap capabilities be protected by a won't when they figure out I'm doing well and making money. Will they still say, "Oh, I don't think I want to do that because here's here's how it'll uh how it'll hurt uh my my the core of my business." That is so powerful that you really want to create those won'ts. And it sounds like to do won't then you need to really deeply understand the strategy of your competition. Oh yeah. And you need to deeply understand the customers. you you you exhibited that like as a strategist you exhibited that. It's like, oh, here's what the enterprise people want, and it's different than what these other people, right? That's that's that's understanding your customers well enough to understand aware that somebody who doesn't understand them as well won't think as aware, right? Like if if if people have in their mind the only customers of LLM AI are individuals, right? They won't think of your wear because they don't believe your wear exists. But you've looked at the space enough to say, "Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no. There's two very different wares." And, "Oh, how are they different?" Uh, Akos. Oh, well, one wants enterprise grade. That means slower releases that are more buttoned down by the time but uh by the time you do it, it means more partnerships with other organizations. It means collecting data for your LLM differently. like you then spooled up a whole bunch of things that that helped you understand a different space which then opens itself up to a different how. You know, when you're where choices, what I find in strategy is when you're where choices are the same, it gets exponentially harder to have a distinctive how, right? It's it's easier. Just just think of your own situation the the one you the one you presented by going to that where you suddenly saw some house you wouldn't have seen those hows if you would have had the same wear because those houses didn't exist right um so that's that's why I I always tell people who want to do playing to win strategy is that where to play how to win has to be a matched pair don't make a long list of potential where to plays and then a long list of how to wins and then sort of think let's pick one of each. One from column A and one from column B. No, you should think about pairs. I could have this where to play how to win or this other way to play how to win or this other way to play how to win. They're pairs. uh and you you in your in your uh kind of nice short concise strategy story identified a pair not how to wins and where to plays that were sort of independent of uh of one another. So good work. So they all have to be connected. And I think one of the things that gets in the way of all that connectivity for product managers and product leaders in particular is we get these very small windows to do strategy work. We're so obsessed with execution and features. Everybody's asking us about the next feature we're going to release. But luckily we get either an annual planning or a halfyear planning cycle. But in your work, you've really identified that and emphasized that there's a big difference between planning and strategy. So, what do people get wrong in these planning cycles? Well, they they just they just make lists of stuff and uh like if the strategy for your product sucks, there's no real where to play and there's no real how to win. I I couldn't care less if you execute it well. you have a list of initiatives and you do all of them because at the end of the year you'll say, "Wow, that was we worked so hard this year. We had 37 initiatives all mapped out on some big Gant chart and and look at that. Tada! We did them all, but we didn't sell anything." That's that's not because you didn't complete the Gant chart. You didn't complete all the initiatives on time, on budget. It's because people and customers said, "Eh, couldn't care less about your your uh your product." And in fact, there's there's a better one. And actually, it costs a little bit less and it's a lot better. So So that's that's the problem with planning. Planning says we're going to do these things, right? Isn't that what planning is about? We're going to do these things. Yeah. That's what it strategy says we're going to seek this output this outcome and you got to you got to be focused first on that because without a theory of how you are going to produce the outcome in question without that theory and a good theory uh for that like your anthropic I like your anthropic theory uh unless you have a good theory for that. It doesn't matter a wit whether you do a bunch of sensible sounding initiatives. In fact, chances are it would be better for you if you laid on a beach for a year and closed up uh shop because you're going to close up shop because you didn't sell anything despite working like a dog. Just go lay on a beach or, you know, polish your resume. Um that's that's the difference. And and the tricky thing, right, is plans make people feel very comfortable. They know what they're supposed to do. And they come into work and I'm going to knock this off the list. And they can tell their boss, look, you know, I knocked this off the list. This was my OKR and I and I uh and I did it and you should pat me on the back now. Right? Um so it's very much more comfortable. Strategy says we got to make some we got to make some bets. And because we think Akos has got this right about the APIs for the corporate market and the and the and the partnerships, we're going to spend our time on on making the corporations, you know, gleefully happy and our and figuring out how to have the best partners. Um, and we're not going to spend a bunch of time on this other stuff. And we're not going to do releases every week to make these con consumers happy. and we're not going to advertise on network TV to to uh to consumers. Um that takes some guts, right? Because it says we're going to take our resources and bet them behind this theory of winning. So it sounds like if you're one of those product leaders in a planning cycle, the very first thing you want to do is put away all your road maps and your planning documents and first review the company strategy itself and say, do I agree with this? What are the implications for my product strategy? Where are we playing? How are we going to win? What are the needed capabilities? How would I make sure that those all have connections? So, it's basically flipping it where people will create the list of initiatives and then create the pros. Instead, create the thinking, the pros first, get a lot of agreement and alignment on that and then let the initiatives naturally fall out. Is that the right way to approach planning? Yes. And guess what? You'll have fewer fights about the initiatives, right? Like if you think about most planning processes like everybody sits around the table and they've got their own favorite initiative and they're like and and then then the CFO is sitting there or the finance person on your team is saying we don't have that much money so we can't do yours a cash and and that guys or gals over there and and you have these big you know fights about about it because because you want it on the list because you want to do that thing right uh and and uh if instead you have a strategy It's pretty obvious. You can just ask does that initiative contribute to compelling the customer to act the way we are we believe they will act in the context of this strategy? And the answer I I can promise you the answer is is typically quite clear. It's like why why would we do that? you know, X uh and that other one. Oh, no, no, no, no. That that and that we got to get done in the first quarter because we got to get this sort of momentum going on that. So, so yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. That one, that one, that one goes right away. That one could wait. It's important, but it could wait a little bit. It all falls more easily into place because it it can be hung, if you will, on the theory. And some things when you try and hang them on the theory, they fall off because there's no hook that that hangs them there. Is there an element of this where if you are too low in the organization like if you are truly working with the developers on some small feature that you can't really rework the strategy and it's really important for you then to understand what strategic choices other people have made and maybe feedback into their decisions. Yeah. No. Uh but the real choice in that case is uh how soon am I going to quit? No, man. Seriously. Right. Like the if I if I were in that in that situation, I would I would present the case to say here's why anything we attempt to do here is screwed. Uh here's why. Here's what I would change, but that's not it's above my pay grade. But I would tell you this is what I would change because otherwise this is the charge of the light brigade and we're all going to get mowed down. Uh and so I'm giving you this opportunity. Uh and uh if not, I get it. You know, you're you're my boss. You're more senior than me. I may not be seeing something that you you see. Although you say, "Hey, you know, explain to me how I've got it wrong." And and typically they won't be able to because they're silly. uh and and then the very best thing you can do for your career is leave in the next 5 minutes and go to a place where where you've got a chance where you've got a chance to have a a a good outcome. So I think that the examples really helped me at least when I was reading and analyzing and listening to a lot of your content and one of the examples I love how you describe is Southwest and I think if people had trouble with our anthroic example they might be able to gro the Southwest example. So can you walk us through how they made a bold where to play and how to win choice that others couldn't copy? Yeah. Yeah. So so Southwest Airlines uh took shape in the in the early 70s. uh uh Herb Keller, the legendary uh CEO. He had a couple partners, but he's the guy who ended up being the legendary CEO. and um uh and he observes the airline industry and says, "Gee, they spend a lot of time on the ground." And it seems to me the only time you make money is when your plane is in the air, right? Uh, and so what what could happen if we set up a system designed to have our planes in the air all the freaking time? Um, and they're on the ground most of the time. Um, I think we can beat up on them. And he said, "Well, what what keeps them on the ground for longer periods of time?" Well, they have a hub and spoke system, right, where they fly all the planes into a hub and they have to wait for the last plane to get in and then fly them fly them all back out. So, they're kind of waiting around for the last uh for the last plane. They have a whole bunch of kinds of planes. Um, and that means adjusting the gates every time a different plane comes in and that take that takes extra time. They have advanced seat selection, so it takes people a lot longer to get into their uh seats. They have interline baggage uh kind of uh programs where they'll take bags that somebody flew, you know, a United flight into into Chicago and flew an American flight out. Americans got to get the bag from uh United takes a lot of time, causes causes uh delays, too. So, why don't we why don't we do the following? Why don't we say we're going to only fly point to point? Our planes are just going to go back and forth and back and forth between between points. They don't wait for anybody at all. How how's about we just have one kind of plane? How's about 737s narrow body? How's about we don't have any uh advanced seat selection and we have a system for getting people on and off the planes uh that much faster. Um and while we're at it, there are a bunch of other costs that'll have that sorry and that and that'll get us 15minute gate turns. Our competition often has an hour or two hour gate turns. We'll have 15-minute gate turns. Our planes are on the ground for 15 minutes at a at a time and flying the rest of the time, making us making us money. Then he did a whole bunch of other things. He said, you know, travel agents get paid too uh too much, 7% right off the top. Let's encourage people to book on the internet. How about that for a concept? Now, when they were doing it, that was actually actually quite unique. Uh but it's shown they're correct, right? and the travel agency business has gone to hell in the hand basket because people just go on Expedia and or or Canoe or who whatever and and u and book book themselves. How's about we we fly short short hall flights where we don't actually have to serve food. So catering the airplane that also helps get the 15-minute turns. There is no such thing as catering the uh uh the airplane. Um, and our where to play is going to be as a replacement for Greyhound. We'll have really frequent departures. They'll be really cheap. It won't cost that much more than a Greyhound bus and get get you there faster and and more conveniently. And and uh they started with uh you know, three cities uh Houston, Dallas, Austin in uh uh in Texas. Uh that's why they're southwest. they only were in the Southwest and slowly but surely used that model to expand across uh the country and all the big airlines simply couldn't stop them. There was nothing they could do to stop them. They would get a certain percentage. Oh, and by the way, we're going to fly into secondary airports where the where the congestion is is uh it's much less actually parking costs and the like are much less. So the overall total cost to the to the customer is is uh is less and so nobody could nobody could stop them. What would have they had to do to stop them? Well, American or United would have to say we're going to sell most of our fleet off. We're going to totally and and then buy all the same the the same plane. Uh, we're going to tear up our route schedule and go uh point to point. We're going to tell uh travel agents to go bye-bye. We're going to tell our all of our uh customers that there's no advanced seat selection. There's no first class. There's no none of that. Right? They just all just said life's too short. We're not going to do that. and they're little anyway and they're low cost and yeah d and so they just sat sat by while Southwest went across all of America and became the number one in passenger seat miles and the only consistently profitable airline across all of them never gone into chapter 11 didn't need bailouts uh and any of those any of those things. So that's that's a strategy of making a completely different set of choices that all fit together and and reinforce their where to play, their how to win. And it all plays out in in in different set of capabilities and management systems, right? If you have the same capabilities and management system, the last two boxes of of the diagram, um but a really clever where to play, how to win, right? What'll happen when people figure out your where to play, how to win is clever, right? They'll redeploy their exactly the same capabilities and management systems to your where to play, how to win and make it a disaster. You know, Southwest, right, in union negotiations, everybody says, and the way Southwest uh gets their low cost is by being non-union non-un. No, they're as unionized. They have the same percentage of unionization as the the other uh big carriers. But in union negotiations, they are very very generous on pay. They typically are the highest paid uh workers in the industry. For the lowcost carrier, how do you do that? But they are completely completely intrigent on flexibility. They won't have, you know, you know, you're part of the bring ladders to the plane union, you're part of the taking bags out, you part of the check-in people, you're part of the people who put people on on planes, right? Um, uh, you have to have complete flexibility. So, you get paid more, you have more profit share, uh, and complete flexibility. Meanwhile, the other airlines are trying to grind down labor costs and and and so your system for union relations, labor relations is completely different. And I saw this in play. I got I got to say I just some of the Southwest stories are great. I was flying to give a speech. I live in Fort Lauderdale and I was giving a speech in Orlando and Southwest is the is the only carrier that that flies there. And so I was flying from Fort Lauderdale to Orlando and I I sort of my schedule was such that I kind of had to have be on this plane and and that plane be relatively on time. There just wasn't any choice in my in my schedule to to be on stage on time. And so I'm sitting there and there's becomes this giant lineup of of wheelchairs. Like I'm not exaggerating. There's at least 40 wheelchairs. You know, normally there's one or two. Yeah. And there be more people come, these old people in these wheelchairs and I and they're all lined up and I'm like, "This is going to take an hour. This is going to be horrible. I'm going to be so so late." But then, you know, the door opens, the passengers kind of uh come off and then from all across the terminal, these Southwest people descend on this lineup and suddenly there's one Southwest person with every wheelchair, right? It's not like one guy goes in and then comes out and does the next one. Literally all of and they're suddenly as if the shotgun goes on, starter pistol goes on and all of them go on the plane in like 5 minutes. I I was like a go. But that there I saw it right in front of my eyes. The Southwest uh strategy and the management system flexibility uh high flexibility, high pay, not low flexib flexibility uh low pay. Uh, I saw it in action and it got me on time and that plane was on the ground for 15 minutes and loaded up 40 uh aging people in wheelchairs. Cool. That's so cool. And what I love about what I really took away listening and reading to the Southwest example is a couple things. The first is how integrated again these five steps are, right? the down to how much that when you make the early decisions of where you're going to play and how you're going to win, the other decisions become really natural, right? Like these decisions to potentially pay our pilot uh all our staff more, for instance. Like this is just a mind-blowing decision that they made, but it follows naturally based on some of the other strategic choices and how kind of all of these five pieces connect. Another takeaway for me is and can I just interrupt you there before you go to the next one and think of it if it was have been on a list of a random list of initiatives somebody would have said you're out of your mind we're going to pay them more right because it it doesn't make any sense but as you say in the context of those other choices it's like are you an idiot or is this the the only thing to do so you're so you're you're very much right on that and then the second thing is heading to where the puck is going what we heard from both the Walmart exam example, missing out on the Amazon opportunity and the Southwest example is seeing where the tech is going and hopefully for anthropic in my case understanding that there's going to be a huge enterprise AI adoption. And so you really need to have some sort of hypothesis about the future. Being a strategist also means being able to have some opinions about the future. I think that's true. I mean, you know, I I I think you maybe noticed I used the word theory a number of times, right? In this, you have to have a theory about those things. Are your theories always going to be right? No. But having the theory that the future's going to look a lot like the past, which is the dominant theory in business, right? that the dominant what my one of my mentors Chris Argers called the dominant theory in use what people actually do rather than what they espouse the dominant theory at use is the future is going to be like the past so let's keep on keeping on right that's a bad theory now the future nobody knows for sure and so it's a bet that's why I say strategy is if you if you think strategically you know put your mind to it, you can dramatically improve your odds of success, which you there's no such thing as perfection in strategy. You can't be perfect. But what I say is you need to have a theory about the future, you know, to say this is a where to play, how to win that I think will work well with the future hypothesize. Then I have this this this question. I say the most important question in strategy is not what is true, it's what would have to be true. So you say then okay so I'm going to head out on that course based on this theory then what would have to be true what would have to be true about customers what would have to be true about the distribution channel what would have to be true about the industry about our competitors you put all those what would have to be trus down and what I say is you have pick alternative theories about the future do this for each of them and ask yourself the question for which theory are the what would have to be trus feeling more likely to be true Right? And then you pick the one where where you feel most confident that what would have to be trus are going to become true and we can help make them uh come true. But then I say you watch them like a hawk. What I say is you tack up that that what would have to be true chart on your desk right in front of your your on your tackboard front of your desk or beside your desk wherever it is. uh and every morning come in and say what I'm doing depends on these what would have to be trus getting more and more true over time rather than less and less true. And if you come to the office and you say I think those are getting less true, what do you do? Rethink. Ask yourself the question now. bey updating you know I'm now I'm not two years ago when I put that in and what has the additional data uh you know caused me to to think might be other than I think and then you rethink and and adjust your strategy and I think that's a really good template for product leaders who are thinking about those planning sessions is go back to the original strategy and say what are the basian updates we're making about the predictions we made about the future what have we learned that's new how are we going to change that I I think that's really how you take the annual planning cycle and you make it not just a planning cycle but actually an update on your strategy. I like that. Hadn't thought of it that way. Maybe I'll write something on that. I think it's a good I think it's a good uh I think it's a it's a really concrete uh to to do. Next time you start a planning session, ask the question the the question that uh that you've that you've asked. I think it I think it would reduce the amount of autopilot that goes on like there is wouldn't you agree there's lots of autopilot it's even though the decision was made three years ago it's just well you know kind of what initiatives do we have to do to keep to keep on refining this uh and that's sort of you know kind of autopilot instead of let's just step back don't have to take a long time to do it but let's just ask the question what what has changed over the over that if it's two years what's changed over that two or even last What's changed since last year that might cause us to think a course correction would be in order versus nope, keep plowing forward. Yeah, I think the autopilot curse is one curse. I spend a lot of time with middle career people. So, the curse I see is the kind of throw your hands up curse, which is like that's above my pay grade. Oh, and what I always encourage folks to say is like especially if you have the word product in your title, assume that it is in your pay grade to be questioning those assumptions and surfing that information up to the people who can make changes. Yeah, I I would agree. I mean, like and and part of this just has to do with with maturity. Like if you surface it in the form of as any plain as as any fool can plainly see, you're going to get slapped down. But if you surface it as it feels to me as though we had this set of assumptions about what would have to be true when we made this and that and that that was the best we could do at that time and now we've got this additional information that suggests that some of those uh kind of might not be quite as true as we thought. That gets me thinking that maybe maybe we need to modify the strategy. What do you think, boss? Right. If if you do that, in my experience, bosses don't chop your head off. They say, "Well, I got a thoughtful person working uh with me. He or she is not saying I'm an idiot." Uh he's saying it's prudent for us to give this some consideration before continuing to charge down uh the path. And I and I think I think if you're not willing to do that as a product manager, you ain't ever going to be the boss. Yeah. You need to put on that boss hat way before so that when you finally get there, you're used to thinking that way. I agree. I agree. So, a third takeaway I would take from the Southwest Anthropic and Amazon Walmart stories is how important it is to understand what your competitors won't do. Yeah. And that was that was a really important takeaway from all three of these. And I think that's the one that I even sometimes struggle with. I'm just thinking about it right now. Like versus my podcast competitors, what they won't do. And I'm just like, gosh, I guess they would just do everything I'm doing. How do you think about what they won't do? Like when you're coaching people and they're having trouble with that, how do you work through that? Well, I I I try I try to get them to to roleplay to a certain extent, right? uh you to just put yourself uh um you know we for in in playing to win as you know we used the Olay example and and the key the key won't there was the number one selling skincare brand in the world at the time at a price point now just slightly higher. They are 20 bucks and we were $18.99 for the new Olay product. We've taken it up from a $5 price point and made it a much higher quality product and sell it for but they were gigantic. Uh threeish times as big as we were at at at the time. Um, and we were going to sell in the mass channels kind of, uh, Walmart, Target, uh, Kroger's, uh, uh, uh, Walgreens, CVS, those are called the the mass channels versus the prestige channels, department store, Sephora, Ulta. Um, uh, they were in in those prestige channels. The big won't that we had to believe in was that uh uh their parent Estee Lauder uh wouldn't say this is an existential threat. We're going to go into mass because if they would have got into mass I think they would have overwhelmed us. They were beloved. Uh there were reasons reasons uh uh why we had a a real chance of winning because going to prestige channel made women take an extra trip. They were in the mass channels every week and so we were going to give them something that was prestige like in the mass channel, not an extra trip. That goes right out the window if Clinique does the same thing like right out the window. a big a big thing that was uh kind of working for us and they'd probably get more shelf space than we would do because they were three times as big as well we were and the the the mass trade would would think this is great we got to really suck up to to them because this is the first this is the first Esteee Lauder product line that that we're getting in the mass right so severe horrible threat why did we think it would be a won't. Well, not only does Estee Lauder own Clinique, the Esteee Lauder brand, Bobby Brown, MAC, and a half a dozen others, they're the dominant player in prestige. What do you think the Prestige channel would have done to all those other brands if uh if Estee Lauder would have said, "We're going to take the biggest one, the one that you make the most money on, and we're going to take it over to your competitors, the mass channel. They've taken SD lottery out back and so they haven't. It's now uh yeah 24ish years. Yeah. And they haven't. And so that that was a very powerful won't. And the won't tends to come with this idea of mixed motives, right? Which is which is which is that they would have to give up something that was valuable to them to do the thing we want. It's not just an ad. In that case, what what Estee Lauder the company, the parent company had to do is say, how much will we get punished by prestige across our the prestige channel across the whole rest of our line? That's a big that's a negative number against the positive of how much we'll sell in this new channel. And the answer was little positive, gigantic negative, gigantic negative. And so it was a it was a won't. And the automakers said, "Okay, every every uh electric vehicle we've we've tried to sell uh thus far when we've when we've created them has lost x number of dollars per vehicle. Every ice vehicle, internal combustion engine vehicle we sell, we make this much money. uh shall we start to take them investments that we take to keep on making our ICE vehicles great and put them over here? It was like why the hell would you ever want to do that? So Tesla says and Tesla, you see, has what? Zero mixed motive. How much money did they lose on not selling ICE vehicles? One big zero, right? Um and so so if you can exploit the mixed motives of your uh competitor with your strategy then that is a that is a wonderful uh wonderful thing and Amazon uh did it Tesla uh did it ole did it uh and in each case you know it was worth billions and billions and billions of dollars um and Like it's somewhat hard hard to say, you know, you're the the company in question is stupid, right? Right. I mean, that happened, you know, if you want to the opposite story for Proctor and Gamble, it was Dollar Shave Club, right? When Dollar Shave Club came into existence, there was a big won't for PNG to follow. So, let me get this straight. You say to all your retailers because you have a 100% of your business virtually is retail distribution. And you go to them and say, "Guys, we're starting this club where we're going to start selling directly to cons to customers to consumers. What do you They're cheaper than you do." Yeah. Yeah. What do you What do you think of that? Right. And the answer the answer would have been like, you know, well, no problem. that's okay, we'll just delist you, right? It would have been a disaster of epic proportions. And so we had to let Dollar Shave Club do it. But then in due course, we went back to the retailers and said, "It's coming out of your pocket, too, right? You know, you're getting zero dollars from Dollar Shave Club. Zero from Dollar Shave Club. And Gillette sales are disappearing. How's about we do this? We create a joint venture and we give we keep track of where we sell uh to uh where the customers are and if they're in your catchment area, you get your share of the share of money we make to make together. If we' have gone to that that before Dollar Shave Club, they would have said, "Are you out of your effing mind?" Like that's stupid, right? We literally had to let them see that this thing was happening uh and then say, "Here we have a solution uh for you." And in that case, and we also competed aggressively enough during the time that Dollar Shave Club never made a buck ever. Uh they did manage to sell to Unilver for I always forget if it's 1 billion or 1.1 bill 1 or 1.1 billion. Uh Unilver couldn't make a buck on it and recently sold them privately but the the scuttlebutt is for $70 million. So they lost a billion dollars uh uh on on that. But lots of people absolutely slayed Proctor and Gamble for being so slow to respond and why didn't they think of it and well you know uh we had mixed motives. We want we wanted to protect the business uh with our channel partners uh and took and and took a beating for it. But that was clever. the entrepreneurial kids, the guys, I think it was three of them who started Dollar Shave Club, got to sell it for a billion dollars, a mature, you know, their LPs, made most of that, but they probably walked off with hundred or a couple hundred million dollars. So, they they saw mixed motives, then they went at it and made a bunch of money. I think exploit the mixed motives that if my anthropic strategy works, they'll have to exploit chat GPT's reliance on consumers. So it seems like mixed motives is a really good disruption strategy if you have a bigger target player and it always feels so scary like how do I compete against them? They have more money. They have more resources. So try to exploit those motives that they have because of those money and resources and and as part of that what can you not do? Replicate their word to play right because then there you'll be replicating their mixed motives. Right? you'll be just the same as them. And what you're saying is even though we could say Anthropic replicates their where to play, yes, they sell to consumers, but but really the meat of the business is is is in the area that that exploits the mixed motives of their of their bigger competitor. But that that would be like so if you if you have that in your mind, I'm going to exploit the mixed motives of the incumbent uh uh to carve out a business, the next thing you have to do is say, how's my different where to play going to enable me and and enable me to do that? If you don't ask that question, chances are you're not going to have a winning strategy. Yeah. Yeah. If you replicate their way to play, you replicate their mixed motives. Exactly. Then you have to you have to look at the interconnectedness which goes back to our first takeaway. So that is our 65inut walkthrough on strategy. Obviously you have written 12 plus books. You have tons and tons of resources out there for folks to go if they want to go further. And that's actually where I wanted to shift to right here at the end. I like to ask all my guests a little bit more personally. What does the business and time allocation of Roger Martin look now after being a world-renowned strategy author having retired from being dean of school of business? What is keeping you busy now? I I spend my time split about 50/50 now. So I used to do three things academic administration, writing and advising CEOs on on strategy. And I I said after 21 years of it enough of of that uh academic administration piece and now it's largely split 50/50 uh uh I have like about a dozen CEOs who I advise on strategy uh kind of around the world sort of fun uh and the other half of my time writing the biggest use of my writing time these days and I would say for your listeners please please check it out if you liked playing to win. I have had for the last 4 and a/4 years a series on medium on the medium platform called the playing to win practitioner insights series and every week for the last you know four plus years so over 200 pieces I've written a a 1500 to 2,000word piece on some aspect of of strategy like Mondays is going to be personal people and people will ask me questions personality types Big five, MyersBriggs. Does it how does that relate to you being a good That's going to be Monday. Uh and so anybody who likes playing to win and likes the conversation today, there are literally um five play five and a half playing to win worth of of uh of topics. They're all on my website. So my website is www. Roger L. Martin. You got to have remember my middle initial or you'll get a uh real estate agent in Houston who's very nice, but I I I try to keep him from being inundated with my uh my uh falsely directed emails. ww. roger martin.com and you just look for my my plane to win practitioner insight series. So, you don't even have to be on the medium platform which is only 50 bucks a year. But if you don't want that, they're all freely available. Uh and you can just search through for topics, you know, how to take on a big uh big incumbent, uh how do you deal in a growing industry, like there there are all details on the general theme of of playing to win. And I've had several really famous authors on the podcast and I always ask them, what does the monetization pie chart look like? And the most surprising insight is usually the time pie chart will be something like half 50% writing but the monetization will be a lot less for the books and a lot more from the consulting. Is it similar for you? Absolutely. Um like I don't even try to monetize the writing directly. It's indirectly. And I can't tell you how many how many times a CEO has called me up and said I I read your read medium piece and I'd love to talk more about that. So, you could say it's not monetization because I didn't charge him for that medium piece, right? But you could say it's monetization because, you know, the last time that happened, it was it was uh over a million bucks uh of of of consulting, right? And so, so that's that's basically I've come to the conclusion of is if you've got good ideas, and I believe I do, otherwise I wouldn't write. I would be insane. Then if so, I believe I got good enough ideas to write and I know because people read them that that that uh uh that they must be useful ideas. Getting them out to the widest audience is key. not putting them behind a pay wall that makes sure nobody's nobody sees them. Get them outuh widely and business of the sort you want to do will come to you. Uh so that that is my that is for what it's worth a monetization kind of technique like I you know royalties on playing to win. It's split 50/50 with with AG I don't know it's been out 12 years. I'd have to look. I bet I bet together we've we've gotten a million maybe a million two in in in royalties. Um that would be a tiny tiny proportion of the consulting revenues that I've done in in the 12 years since since the the publication of of uh of the book. So that's that's the monetization uh scheme. So I look really closely at my analytics on the retention for these episodes. And those of you listening 70 minutes in or watching on YouTube, a very high number of you tend to be creators or have books or have consulting. It just it shakes out that way somehow. And so I think a lot of them might be asking, how do you structure your offer, Roger, for these consulting packages? Oh, I just uh I just say um here's my a daily rate. A day is eight hours. Uh if I if you ask me to show up, uh it's eight hours if I have to travel for it. If you want to zoom like this, it's however long, however many hours it takes. And I will just uh promise you x number of days a year. you promise to use me x number of days uh a year and that's it. I don't I never do proposals and any any any such thing. It's just it's just pure pure uh advisory. Got it. And some coaches they bill a certain amount of hours but they always overd deliver. They're available on Slack. They're sending pre and post messages and stuff like that. It sounds like you're not doing that. You're really focused on your time. Oh yes. No, I mean I I I I'm actually not terribly terribly strict on it. I mean, the most strict thing I'm on is if you want me to fly to your city to spend a day with you. Uh even if you only have four hours for me, it's going to be a day because I had gota had to fly fly there. But if you there are there are clients who'll send me, could you read this deck before our two-hour uh meeting? And I'm like, as long as they're good as long as they're good people and good clients. If they're abusive, I just stop working with them. Uh but if if if they're a good person, I try to I try to be flexible. But the the the arrangement just is I just make myself available to to think with you. and you know the CFO of you know the thing immediately before this podcast was a C CFO of a client and he is putting his mind to enterprise strategy and he just wanted me to spend an hour with him shaping his thinking about how to approach that question right the CEO said to him I'd like you to think about our enterprise level strategy because I've done a bunch of work at the business units uh for them uh and they want to do that and so it just gets on for for an hour and we talk and and that hopefully sets him off in a more productive direction than he might have other otherwise and uh you know we're off to the races. Wow. Even the master class on consulting was great but the master class on strategy was the true gem. Roger Martin, thank you so much. It's my pleasure. Thanks for having me. Akos, I really hope you guys enjoyed that episode. It would mean a ton to me and the team if you could please subscribe on YouTube, follow on Apple and Spotify podcasts, and leave a rating and review. Those ratings and reviews really help grow the show and help other people discover the show, and they help fund the production so that we can do bigger and better productions. Can't wait to share the next episode with you. Until then, see you later.