Bart, why should people watch this episode? I'm going to break down exactly how I went from a laid-off PM to a content creator with 123,000 followers. It's much more important to have a very good hook than have a hook full of words that you want to express. So, quality over quantity. When I started, my goal was not to be a content creator. My goal was to get people to become students of my course. A lot of people want to break into Microsoft. Talk to us about that job search and how that went. Went to the first round and I made a great impression. Let's live review a couple resumes by 25% within the year is a great example and I can see that the whole CV is written like that. I only don't like really quickly. I think a crazy stat is that more than 50% of you listening are not subscribed. If you can subscribe on YouTube, follow on Apple or Spotify podcasts, my commitment to you is that we'll continue to make this content better and better. And now on to today's episode. Bart, thank you so much for coming on the podcast. It's been a while. It's been too long. Thank you for having me. So, I wanted people who can relate to your story to hear your story. You were working at Microsoft and something really unfortunate happened. Can you tell us the story? Well, I was just the first wave of layoffs, which I believe was not any different from any other layoff that happened in the industry. Well, I sort of put a target on my back and as I've finally set up my remote work back then and two weeks in, the news dropped. But again, I think I was just a row in Excel, not anything else. So actually it turned out for the best in the long run fortunately. It is so hard when it happens though and you were working at Skype. We know Skype isn't doing or staying around that long anymore. So it's hard when you're at that type of a product. You've just accomplished something great which is you've just got your remote working setup. How did it make you feel to get laid off and how did you process that? Funny enough, I was sort of prepared for it because I was um taking this as a possibility. So, I made some arrangements in my head. I had my second stream of income from uh content creation that get got me secured. I was already back in Poland. So there was there would be no issue with relocating from Czech Republic where the Skype offices. And yet even though I I don't want to say saw it coming, but even though I was prepared, it hit like an iron. It hit like what could have I done better? So much self-doubt, so much anger, I would say. so much like the feel of unjust because I've spent two two and a half years being the most loyal Skype and Microsoft um pro propagator uh fan. I used my large network to make sure that people remember about Skype. And even though I think I did everything right, it was still not enough in the end. It feels so rough. How what were things that helped you rebound from that moment and process those tough emotions? For one thing, I was lucky enough to be in the first wave of layoffs as I mentioned, which meant there were still realistic options of getting a job quickly, which fortunately happened to me. I also had probably the most exciting trip of my life. uh lined up and we were traveling with my wife to New York City. So definitely having a vacation shortly after that happened really helped and that was that was like a bit of a jokey thing with us that you were just laid off. Yes, I was. And you're taking the most expensive trip possible. Yes, I am. zero logic, but it really it was really helping to put things in perspective and it was quite funny to juggle job interviews in US time for European position while being for example in hotel in Miami and being by the poolside and talking to I think it was affirm actually that that that I had a poolside interview but they didn't know I it was just in for my personal disclosure so to say other than that I just gave myself gave myself time to I don't want to say mourn but process it I realized that that something big has happened I didn't deny it I let the emotions flow and I started on like a journey of a little bit of self-discovery so rather than throw myself into work on content creation I started thinking what will make me super happy when I have so much time and I can fool around a bit before I start a new job while I have the severance. So this is the last time in my life that I can really have this like student vacation like this carefree vacation. So I started learning magic tricks to which I still am able to get card disappear in my hands though I don't have any card to show that at the moment and uh I've spent I think two or three weeks preparing my favorite April fool's prank where I recorded myself playing bits and on first of April that year I posted a YouTube video where I announced that I will no longer do product management instead I will do BeatSaber playthroughs. The the the video is still there. It had no um viral factor. Maybe few hundred people saw it in a post and YouTube, but I had so much fun putting it together. And it is amazing how quickly you rebounded from a job. Can you walk us through your job search strategy post layoff? I remember I decided not to use my followers initially just to make it a challenge for myself because having dozens of thousands of followers and asking for a job would be sort of cheating the system. And I said to myself, if I'm giving lots of advice about how to put a CV together, how to find a job, then it's best to use all the advice I'm giving to people, to myself, and see firsthand how it works because markets change, tools change. Maybe I'm giving expired information. But fortunately, the CV I put together, the job boards I visited, primarily LinkedIn, but also Polish websites, indeed a little, it was quite enough to get a 60% response rate back then to my CV as I recall and I talked to banks, smaller, bigger, SAS companies. Affirm as I mentioned I think Affirm was the best um lead for me though I ended up in my previous employer stepstone the biggest job board in Europe uh just because I still had colleagues there who really believed in me who wished that we worked together and the proposal they put together was well hard to refuse really so it's been two years since I've rejoined stepstone This is I've changed teams since then. My son was born. So I barely worked for a year as I also took a paternity leave to take care of the newborn for six or seven months. Thank you Poland for allowing me to take this paid let me add uh time off as a dad. And that was really unique experience and I would do it all over again if I could. And yeah, things are going great. Actually, that sounds a lot better than the two weeks I took when my daughter was born. That is awesome. So, you were able to land a job at your prior employer. Can you walk us through how that worked? Did they reach out to you? Did you reach out to them? What did the interview process look like? And how did you prepare for that? Funny enough, I was already talking to Stepstone before as we were working on a common project with my ex-manager and just like on a call that we were coordinating this project uh he mentioned that if I ever wanted to come back just mention there will be a sit for you waiting and I just called that on an email saying that if if you are sincere why not let's let's uh work on it and it was literally a single interview uh with my manager and hair manager and that was it. I didn't feel like I needed to prepare cuz I feel like I'm quite strong with the common product management questions and since this was my ex employer and an industry that I've worked 11 years cumulatively I just went went into it and well I managed to convince them that it's a good idea to to bring me back. Today's episode is brought to you by the AIPM certification on Maven run by Mcdad Jaffer who is a product leader at OpenAI. This is not your typical course. It's eight weeks of live cohort-based learning with a leader at one of the top companies in tech. OpenAI just doesn't stop shipping and this is your chance to learn how. Run along with product faculty and Mo Ali. The course has a 4.9 rating with 133 reviews. Former students come from companies like OpenAI, Shopify, Stripe, Google, and Meta. The best part, your company can probably cover the cost. So, if you want to get $500 off, use my code AA25 and head to maven.com/product-faculty. That's mavn.com/pect-fac. That's such a heartwarming story. And I think that the takeaway lesson for a lot of people is they do have prior jobs before the layoff. Reach out to those managers, those other employees who thought really positively of your work. I think that's a really concrete takeaway for folks. Yes. No, no bridge bridge burning. There will be reasons why you left. Whether that's salary, lack of progress, maybe a bad manager, but oppo opportunities open, people change. And if you can come back and they want you come back, at least in this economy, this is a great way to circumvent any job market issues in terms of too many candidates on the market and too few jobs available. So I want to rewind because this was a layoff for Microsoft. A lot of people want to break into Microsoft. Talk to us about that job search and how that went. Oh, that was a different time really. That was I didn't look for Microsoft. Microsoft found me. I was being approached on LinkedIn by a recruiter. They uh invited me to a to to a job interview and it was actually for teams, not Skype back then. I've went to the first round and I made a great impression. However, they quickly told me that they actually filled the position because they had a backlog of candidates and they didn't want to delay the process any longer and they offered a um position to another person. But there were openings on Skype and whether I'm open to that. And here is a great anecdote I can quickly share with you because when I was recording my course, I had a video about product life cycle and I had a genuine comment there saying who would like to work for a dying pro product Skype and I had to cut it off knowing that I'm being actually interviewed for that for that product. So that was like destiny making jokes out of what I said and I need to really watch my language since then. Don't we all have a few moments like that? So, you broke in through recruiter reaching out to you. If you were to reverse engineer why that recruiter probably reached out to you, what do you think it was? I think back then there was scarcity of ex uh experienced PMS that weren't working on the market. But it's just back to basics. Have a good LinkedIn profile. Have your experience being expressed with your achievements that were uh achieved using certain skills and ended up with numerical result that you can uh you can show. And for me specifically, I am quite visible on LinkedIn for any product people who go there just like you and several of my of our content creation colleagues. So we would pop up on those searches quite high. I would on like top results I would believe. So using the tool properly, doing a good job at presenting on how you work as a product manager, what are your successes, how you work with the team, how you approach finding problems that need a solution in your product. All that might translate to a later recruit later recruiter approaching you. What I also did that I saw having good results is always when I leave a job, I'm asking for reviews. I have around 20 of them and I saw recruiters directly referencing specific quotes from them from that when I being approached for a job. That's a really good feedback for folks. I do not see many people with reviews, with optimized LinkedIn profiles, and you certainly get a lot of traffic. Are you willing to share how many profile views you get on LinkedIn so people can have a comparison? At the moment, it's 16,000 profile views in the last seven days alone. Wow. So, you're generating a huge amount of visibility for your profile. I ask a lot of people this question and 16,000 is at the very top 1%. So I think that's the magic to your strategy. So we're going to talk a little bit about your content workflows later. I want to stick on this theme of Microsoft and breaking in for a little bit longer. In terms of the interviews you faced at Microsoft, what types of interviews did you face and how did you prepare for them? Okay. So I don't do a lot of work to prepare for interviews. I'm aware that it's mostly case study. So it's mostly about having your own framework that works for you that helps you to create a story and adapting it on the fly. So it's not like I can find a secret stash of Microsoft questions they pull from and just practice the questions and it's all about being ready for the position. So unless you have the experience and are ready for the position then there is no magic hack to prepare you for the for the interviews at least in my opinion and that's why those big companies usually require at least five years of experience on the position in order to consider you in the first place. Um, let's see what interviews. I had one general product interview with my future boss. There was another one that was also like a general interview about how I work, what do I value, what's important for me as a product leader. And one of them was with a technical lead which checked my knowledge about APIs back then. And fortunately I used to manage an API product so it was quite easy for me but I can imagine that if he asked me something different in terms of technology I would be looking very poorly and that's this like weird factor in those job interviews because in my two and a half years in Skype I never got to um develop an API I I never had to pre prepare an architecture of API and the the knowledge it was that was tested on this interview was useless in terms of the actual position. So I could have been uh rejected based on the skills I didn't need but this person wanted to check for some reason. Yeah, those technical interviews I've heard at Microsoft can get really tricky. So it seems like they might have helped you actually by choosing a topic that they thought you actually know something about and you were able to demonstrate your actual expertise there. So that's awesome. Perhaps you're right. Maybe it wasn't about uh the API itself. Maybe it was to check if I'm actually saying truth on my on my resume. This is something I do often when I'm interviewing students for one university I'm uh prepar I'm working for and they I often hear that someone has a hobby X and then I'm asking about this hobby to see if it's an actual hobby or something this person just made up to impress me and they do often make them up. They do. The the funny thing recently was when someone said that he's a fan of robotics and I asked him uh what does he think about the Optimus robot and he's like Optimus Prime Transformers? I don't know about Tesla. He never heard about the Tesla robot when I followed up. So yeah, that's okay. it he was more about building robots and actually uh building knowledge about the industry but still it it tells you something when you interview this candidate. Anything you put on your resume expect people to ask questions. Exactly. So we talked about breaking into Microsoft. If you had to summarize to someone who really wanted to break in like this is the road map to break into Microsoft what would it be? patience because you really need those four or five years of experience and going back to the basics of at least product position to make sure that in the company you are right now you are being datadriven you are using uh agile correctly you are into new tech in sense that you are interested in AI that's the hot word but something that the companies are looking for if you are doing the actual product manager job and you have skills that translated into successful projects then you are on the right track. It's only when you are, for example, a technical product manager or a PM in a startup that does half of the job but also does project management and lots of other stuff is when your resume doesn't look the part. Another hack that you can try is to simply go to Microsoft's career page, find the job you would like to apply for, even if you don't have the years of experience needed, and see how many requirements do you check if you are missing specific bullet points there. It's the like the final call to try to acquire them. Maybe in your current company, maybe change companies where they do agile differently or where you have a better B2C or B2B experience available depending on what you're looking for. But truth is that only maybe not only but the skills that you acquire while working outside Microsoft are the key to going there. Awesome. So let's live review a couple résumés because you emphasize the importance of résumés here. Let's see if these résumés would work. Talk to us about this resume here from Luna Thomas which I pulled. I Googled PM ré example. This is the number one result on Google. So this is what people are seeing. Well, on a first glance, it looks by the book everything you would like to see on on a such such a CV. It's short. It has relevant experience even free positions. Good uh company Salesforce, Stripe, and not sure what play is. [Music] Um, I'm not sure about the right column with achievements, skills, and certification. Looks like it's eating up space that you could better represent yourself as a as a PM and instead you are relegated to the left column where everything needs to be really squished. On the other hand, being very brief with your communication and direct to the point might be an advantage because it's clear as day that Luna is going through the Google's framework of writing CVs where you tell what you did, what was the um effect of it and how does and what metrics represent this success. So let the development and launch of a new financial data integration platform increasing market penetration by 25% within the year is a great example and I can see that the whole CV is written like that. I only don't like the summary as it's very very generic and simple. I always think that the summary is your hook, is something that will allow you to stand out to show your different show your storytelling skills. And if you just go on with a generic corporate bubble, it's again space lost. Overall, this is seven, eight out of 10 for me. Talk to us about the summary. Maybe read out the summary parts that you don't like and how you would rewrite them. Mhm. With over five years of experience in product management, I have a proven track record of driving product strategy and innovation. My expertise is in cross functional team to deliver impactful uh it's hard to rewrite it on the fly because I would prefer it to be highly personal like I can show I can easily show you that I am a product manager that did everything a PM does and I have successes to back it up. What it doesn't show you is that this is my actual passion. It doesn't show you the hours I spend on product management books and um live events. It doesn't show you how I care for my team. And only with their support could I write this awesome CV and I believe I have the skills and dedication to transfer those successes to my next employer and hopefully that will be you. That's a little bit pushing it too far, but that that's just an example that I would suggest Luna put their provided there was her oral spin and her character and soul in it. This is a data sheet really and summary is the place where you can have some level of your own character of baking yourself that interesting person that perhaps is worth to pick up the phone for and invite for an interview and see who you are. So let me go ahead and try to rewrite her summary and you can react to it and improve it even further. So I see that she worked at Stripe and Plaid which are two leading fintech companies most recently but I also heard from you you didn't hadn't heard of Plaid. So I'm thinking in my summary, I want to really brand her as fintech product management fintech product manager with experience at two leading fintexs. Stripe parenthesy $85 billion valuation and Plaid parenthesy $20 billion valuation. Something like that I think could be a good strong summary because it brands her as okay, she's a fintech expert. She's worked at two of the best and it also gives some social proof for that name plaid people might not know. I would agree with that provided that she would be looking for another uh fintech job. If not, that might sway her the other way. Actually, if someone is looking for say B2C product manager for whatever whatever other product, Airbnb for example, the fintech experience is not what you want to put the weight on. You want to put your weight on the core product management skills and a f and focusing on fintech in in specific specifically might distor you can say that you've been working that you managed to work in big companies with lots of happening with where there is a lot of difficult processes to follow and only by leveraging large amount of data and passion and um the systems put in place can you actually achieve success and I have experience in that. Nice. All right. So now I want to move us to a second resume. This is a resume that actually worked for somebody to crack into Google. So I want to analyze this resume together. What works? What doesn't work for you in this resume? Should people really try to target a resume just like this? Let's see. Single product manager, merchant product, data science solution to enhance products experience and marketing efficiency. Hm. I think again this is clearly the format of bullet points that Google likes that actually it's a Google framework. Um I'm missing that summary here just to um show the uniqueness of Nicholas. But again but but I think that the summary is like just cherry over the top. It's still about the skills. It's still about uh the achievements and an unwritten promise of being able to pick up a job at Google, Microsoft or any other company and just get on with it and be productive almost from day one. The whole process is about finding people that you have to invest the fewest resources in order to get them operational. So, I believe that when Nicholas or Yang Yu applied, he just hit all the right notes with the uh with with this resume and it could be 10 out of 10 for the job offer that was on the table. The the it's no a senior product manager job. Okay, I thought it's an internship for a moment. any who that those bullet points clearly demonstrate that uh this person is a great fit, but I can also imagine that that wouldn't be the case for all uh job manager positions. Today's episode is brought to you by Amplitude. Building great digital products is hard. You know that better than anyone. Getting teams aligned, measuring what matters, and scaling your product strategy isn't easy. But what if you had a clear framework to guide your next steps? That's exactly what Amplitude built. They studied the best product teams to understand what really drives impact and turn those insights into the digital experience maturity assessment. In 2 minutes, you'll be able to see where your team stands and what you can improve to build better products faster. Click the link in the caption to take the free assessment and get a clear path to product growth. What I'm trying to say is, and that's the most ignored advice about résumés on earth, is to build a bespoke resume for every position you apply for, or at least make it so it's very easy to notice that you meet all the all the expect job requirements because if you use a generic one that you can be very proud of and that shows you are a great product manager. It doesn't matter if it doesn't provide the recruiter the evidence that you are the right candidate for a specific job ad. Amazing. So that wraps up how to break into these great companies, these fame companies like Microsoft. Now I want to look inside peer behind the curtains a little bit. breakdown for us. What did a day in the life as a PM at Microsoft look like? I need to object a little because I think the whole interview we're trying to glorify Microsoft, Google and I want to tell you that it's only glorified before you get there. You interact with those products dayto day. You see those names in news on your stock um exchange and you think that those are very special places. They will be very special for the first two weeks when you see all those ping pong tables. So free sodas, free food sometimes and everything that's there to give you an illusion of a very very special employer, a very special place, very special mission. Truth is it's just a job as any other. It working at Ox Microsoft and Stepstone was not all that different. Of course, there were different tools, people were different, but at the end of the day, it was the same basic product framework that you used. It was same still empathy based leadership of getting people on your side to trust you to build great products and updates with you. And really the the only difference was the stress and the responsibility of seeing millions and not thousands of users under your care really. And it's every day started with a daily then there were meetings there were refinements there were brainstorming sessions and really nothing unique and I don't think that it should be anyone's goal to work there. There are smaller companies that will be a better fit. Of course, there's nothing wrong in being there. Don't get me wrong. But it's not the ultimate goal of becoming a big company PM. You can be medium and small company PM your whole life and have a better track record, more successes and better pay than people in those companies. And I'm telling you this specifically because um when we were in Skype, we knew that the team's organization is quite bloated and we've heard legends about PMs that were responsible for a single flow that had no developers and would have to compete between one another to get a team to do the projects that they uh drafted in their PRDS. So that would be quite a stressful job and hard to um feel secure in it if you can't really produce results unless you are the best of the 10 single flow PMs on the payroll. So I I would like to deglorify those companies a little just so that you don't think that your career success depends on whether you will break there or not. That's a really important message. It's also a really hot take and I specifically I think that people perceive the compensation at the big tech multinational thing companies to be higher but you're saying it doesn't have to be. It doesn't have to be. I know for a fact that uh pe that sometimes just because of the brand they pay less because they can afford to. Uh you I' I know a Google program manager that had to be given a little bit more share options just to match her previous uh compensation in a in another smaller company. Of course, the compens the the stock options are great, but still it shows you that you are ex you might be pushed into a lower salary bracket just because of the glory of working for Google, Microsoft, etc., etc. it. What it strike me is for example a game publisher Blizzard Entertainment famous for very good games in the past. Uh legendary company. Apparently, they underpay their developers by a lot just because they have the name and they have the passionate children players that grew into being developers who prefer to work for Blizzard rather than have big bigger paychecks on in other companies. And that is why you want to be a glorified company because people will come to you. You don't have to recruit them. It's not a conspiracy. It's just how things worked uh eventually. It's almost like the job market. If I don't have to put a lot of effort to get people, then let's see how low can I pay them and they still keep coming. That's really interesting. Um pay doesn't have to be higher at those big companies and life may not be better. If you could kind of give us just like a prototypical day breakdown. When did you start? How many meetings did you have? When did you end? Were you are you working harder at Microsoft? Are you in more meetings at Microsoft? Want to get more texture on that day. Mhm. It was different throughout the two years because when I started it was literally 80% of time were meetings because I remember a meeting with with my fellow PMs and our boss where we were told to count the meetings we have that are um repeating uh on on schedule and the ad hoc ones plus like some one-on-one ones. And it turned out that we actually have maybe three or four hours of writing or researching per week provided we work the regular 9 to5 uh position timetable. Of course there were times where you would have to break for to do something at the city. Uh sometimes you would stay late just to write something. I would say that on average that would that would be a eight and a half nine hour work day or throughout the week but that would mean that I sometimes stayed late or started earlier just to make sure that this Jira ticket is is written properly before the refinement. At some point however we identified that we don't have time to work and we are just sitting in meetings and we started to do a cleaning project and some of the meetings were cancelled some of them were made bi-weekly so that we generated around like 10 hours of actual working time. Uh we did have always the the lunch was sacred so there was no problem in getting um to to get something to eat at 12 and there is Microsoft W policy of no meetings on Friday though as much as people tried to uphold it there was still a few meetings on Friday and usually by the 4-day marathon you were so tired that you were unproductive on Friday. Uh anyway, so it wasn't I think everyone was like I'm barely working on Friday but but I can't speak up but we know all but we all see it that we are barely existing by the end of the week and we have to cool down before the weekend. So it's it's getting slower on Friday. Okay. So that breaks down life at Microsoft. We would we want to trace your journey from laid off to 125,000 followers on LinkedIn. As we said, some of the craziest numbers on LinkedIn. You're pulling in millions of impressions a month, millions a week sometimes. So, I want to pull up this presentation you had and I want you to walk us through this and we're going to kind of talk through this together. So, where do people start? Well, I think the the the everyone wants to be um I don't want to say star, but have a meaningful presence in social media because if you're writing to no one's reaction that then you just drop it in in in a while and the problem is that it's super hard to get organic traffic initially. So uh what I did but it was just before or during early on Microsoft I would like to compare myself to like a doortodoor salesman who would look for people who might be interested in my content and invite them to see my post see my course and did that for a few months until something kicked off and I started getting organic traffic because [Music] the tailored connections I made gave me enough attention for the algorithm to pick up. So I think that unless you are already popular from other uh other social networks or TV or whatever, you will have to do this basic work initially before you can function as an actual content creator. And you have to first sell sell yourself before people won't will want to read you. I think that's a really important insight. Be the door-to-door salesman at first. Send the connection requests, DM people your content. At the beginning, you have to do that so that you get the flywheel started. Mhm. So, what were your starting principles? Funny enough, I have to work them out uh backwards because when I started, my goal was not to be a content creator. My goal was to get people to become students of my course. And I quickly realized that that I can do that by creating content. And suddenly at some point I realized that it's no longer about selling the course. It's about getting the content. It's about those followers that started pouring in. It's about finding my own groove and making it sustainable. So it's about patience. It's about knowing what you want to write about and whom you want to write for. So that as a typical product manager in his discovery phase, you know your total addressable market and for us I it it's uh for a fact that there's millions of potential followers for product management content and there's one person I can't remember his name he's from India but he has two and a half million followers at this stage. though he does product management and he does um being an effective job seeker. So those are two niches but realistically million hundreds of thousands of users is a good goal for us P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P PM content creators, which makes it worthwhile, right? But if you have a little more a smaller niche, then the question remains if you are okay with that smaller niche, how small is this niche? Are you able to get to those people? Will the people find your content? It's all about that discovery at this stage. And to know that, you probably need to start with people who already create content similar to what you want to create and see what they do that works and how many followers do they have which you can realistically pull off from. I did a similar thing when I started my course creation journey where I was inspired by the top um course on Udemy which now has a quarter of million students and I told myself that if I could achieve like one two three 5% of the number which was half back then it's all it's really really worth to to try to see if I can do something similar. And as I said, they are now at a quarter of a mill. I'm at 23,000. So, I can I can go back in time and tap pat myself on the back. I was right. That was a good discovery effort. And this is what you also need to do when you want to become a content creator. If you don't have your if you can't identify your niche, your market, your unique selling point, what how can you stand out? How why would people read you? Then you might be going to a dead end if if you can't do that prep. So, as you scaled, what were the lessons you learned about content? I guess it's all about trying to find something that works. It's all about the product management journey of experimentation and working of the results and seeing what will work for you. The very important part here is to make it sustainable. I can tell you that you need to post twice a day at midnight 3:00 a.m. and uh that will give you the best results. But of course that's not true that I just made it up. But I wanted to show an extreme version of something that's not sustainable. And if you can't write every day, that's okay. Best LinkedIn content creators are also not able to. They do they pull from all their content. They do easy work if they don't have time or inspiration. I'm I have a system that allows me to create maybe one to three new posts a week and reuse the older ones or reuse them whenever I don't feel like I have any good topic or inspiration to write about or I'm simply too busy. I wouldn't be able to maintain uh the pace of creating something new whole year round uh that would keep up the quality I want to present. So that's actually the key. Focus on quality. Ignore anything else. Uh if you are your dorto salesman um level just use your energy to create a post that will be incredible and then try to ask people to read it and give their opinion. If you get that 10,000 impressions and 100 likes, this is your breaking point of having an evidence that there's something to it that there that's leading somewhere that I those numbers are arbitrary, but if you need a goal, if you need to aspire to something, I think those are good numbers. And if you can't reach them within like two or three years of regular work, maybe you have not identify your niche enough. Maybe you didn't sell sell yourself to enough people, but it's it's hard to say universally. I I just know that for me once I've hit that 100 likes the first time I my eyebrow got higher and I said to myself maybe I'm I'm going about this the wrong way. Maybe it's not about the course. Maybe it's about the personal brand and if the personal brand is strong then opportunities will follow. That's a really important lesson which is you don't just sell your course in every post. You talk about all sorts of different concepts and I think another really important lesson is you post almost every day I think you said but only two to three posts a week are new original posts. Yeah, that's that I have a back a backlog that say I lost the ability to write all together for whatever reason, I would still be able to reuse posts for around three to four months that all of them have a successful track record that bring value to users that were previously appreciated. And of course that isn't too sustainable because it gets old very very fast. But with u any like throwaway posts with some partner work and with experimentation looking for new formats and new successful post. I work in a six to seven month cycle of content which then I reboot. And actually, I had a reboot today with one of my favorite posts about value that product managers can bring in different ways, illustrated by product features with a very outstanding cat scratcher and user needs represented by my cat in the cartoon box. So that that that's my like reboot post that starts a new era of content, new season. And that's I think season five now or four, I can't recall it. Can you walk us through the creation of this post? How did you go about rebooting it? uh for one thing that it started off with I with a graphic that was completely different where it had a cat that was drawn and a cat uh cat scratching pose that was drawn. I can't remember the original but I wanted to make it my own. So, I found that cat scratcher and I was literally hunting my cat to find him one day in a box in a position where he would look cute and he would illustrate the point. So, once I've nailed him this, I knew I had my version of this post. And my whole process is about starting with an image that will uh catch your attention as Pavin puts it the scrolling stopper. Then I write write my hook. So the first sentences that you see and I always make it mobile optimized. So the hook is fully visible regardless of the device you're using. And only then do I write the body of of the post. Uh so that the so to so it mimics sort of the journey that user takes because uh otherwise it would be hard to stand out in the feed. This way when you are aware of how this works then you can put the accents on the right thing. And uh I do a lot of work to make those images as best as possible. I would I would remaster them from time to time as I find new tools and inspirations. Then maybe not this one but the Sunday version of Sunday post which oh sorry Saturday Saturday one uh make it Friday. But this one is actually this one actually has a great history too. But let's focus on the on Homer as we as we actually spoke before. Uh this started off as a very similar graphic about product designers where it was normal people product designers and Homer thinking about padding uh colors and stuff and stuff. And it had the hallmark of a great post because the person who posted it had much fewer followers and hundreds if not thousands of likes which tells me this is a good format bart this this can translate into a successful post. So what I did is I first um cleared obviously normal people and product designers. I used um how it's called midjourney erase function to clean out the original black boxes with thoughts about designs. Once I had a clean image I put that to I love images website. Let me tell you exactly how it's called. I I love emg.com which have a free uh image upscaler so I can make it really HD and if I had more time on Friday I would probably even look for a better screen of Homer sleeping because this one is clearly an old frame from an early season. And you can see that the lines are a little bit misaligned, but I didn't had have as much time to uh to do my shenanigans. Then I went to chat GPT and asked it to brainstorm me things that would keep a product management manager at night. Then I asked it to make it shorter to use three or four words. chosen few of them, written few of them my own and used my favorite image editing software PowerPoint to put it all together in the end because it's it's the faster fastest one that works for for my needs and behold one of the most successful post this year thanks to it. What an amazing post and break down this hook for us. How did you decide on this hook? Is the life of a product manager really that stressful? If so, how do you deal with that? Well, dot dot dot. Okay, so first of all, it's emotional because I'm trying to appeal to an actual problem. My fellow PMs can uh can suffer something that will resonate with a person who's intended to to read about it. So on one hand sitting product managers can um resonate with it is my position that's stressful or aspiring PMs can look at it and think oh I've heard that this position can be stressful can it then I offer a sol I promise a solution in the post um and the well is like this like well you have to click here or more to to learn more to to get and start to actually read that solution. Amazing. And do you use chat GPT to write some of this body or do you write this all yourself? I write it all by myself. I do use chat GPT from time to time to help me out when I'm short on time. But I hardly ever were in a situation where I would just copy paste it. I do add my flavor all always. So um it helps me to draft it doesn't write for me. Okay. So let's imagine that I don't like this one. Let's but let's say I did that I think that yeah that three four out of five PMs enjoy product strategy review. So what I would do here is to copy the image. Uh, I don't need to use midjourney to to clean out the font, which is pretty not too good. So, let's just clean out the the thing. You can see that there's a bit of a box from the text box. Even it take it's taking too long. And by the way, this is like a 20-year-old software uh Photoshop wannabe. So, I I just use it because I'm used to it. But it's so old and that it's even this is quite hilarious that it still works. So a bazave that to desktop then go to my aisle of EMG. Now come on work with me. get to my image free. The upscaling process is quite quick and it really adds that sharpness to the to the whole thing. It it helps you to stick out with that with that additional Whoa. It looks so much better. And you can make it four times. So, so it's and and this one is free. I don't know how they do it. I I don't do it too often. So, probably if I try to do 16 per day, they would ask me to log in and um uh and pay something. But if I do one or two every few days, then it's okay. So, upscale download. Once it's on the hard drive, I just open it. Go back to my favorite uh editing tools. New slide. Put the image here. There we go. I also have a vertical one uh prepared on on another file, but this one is really clearly horizontal. So, I stretch it like this. So, I still have a little bit of space to add a little plugin that's just ready to be copy. Paste it or not. Come on. Why not? Okay, now it worked. So, you pasted in kind of your call to action. Mhm. And obviously I have to recreate the uh the joke in a way that's much um better has better readability and a little bit of more quality I would say. So, four out. Ah, why did it lose the font? Four out of five pms. Um, enjoy. Let's say road map review. So given that it was at an angle on the original, I would still keep the angle because I don't know which detail made this image successful. So I don't want to mess with the formula too much. Just make it fit. Maybe center it. And how did you choose that text? Four out of five PMs enjoy roadmap review meetings. I just recall the original Okay, that's product strategy. Okay, that's again I don't think that's something I would post. I I don't feel inspired by that particularly. And Elena is much better at what I do at what I shown than than I am. She can find those images and look one hour and 20 to 12 uh likes. That's an amazing result. And I wish I had her consistency. Okay. But indeed, you can see how how it started and how it looks in the end. Very cool. So, how do you go about writing the post to accompany this? I always do my best to share advice that's non-generic that comes from my experience to make it unique. If I would just use cliches, that would kill my unique value proposition. And that's why I'm not a big fan of frameworks. That's not that's not why you wouldn't see a typical um job n job, sorry, product life cycle chart on my wall because I share what the struggles I had and how I fixed them. And I do it with a fun meme to to get your attention. So, love it. Since it comes from experience and heart, it's just a matter of writing what I'm thinking with the keys. And it and it actually takes more time to prepare a good image than actually writing the post for me. Wow. Because the image is just that much more important. So, that is a fantastic breakdown of that. And I think the thing is you were consistent for years. So that's really how you made it to 125,000 likes is each post I notice of you, you're getting 1% better. You're learning. You're improving things that you're reposting. So it's not like you're just reposting something from six months ago as it was. Exactly. You're making improvements. I do. What I'm now noticing is that I need to be better at hooks because some of the older posts are not mobile optimized or are too long or are too wordy just because I just learned that it's much more important to have a very good hook than have a hook full of words that you want to express. So quality over quantity regardless of what you do. All right. And can you share what is been the journey of monetizing? You had mentioned to us earlier courses. Now you have this book here. You also we saw in one of those posts there was a sponsored post there. How do you think about monetizing your side business here? You are bringing up an excellent point that's important for content creators. Creating content for creation's sake is a way to get you super tired with no results. The monetization strategy is pretty important because even though you can enjoy your writing, I do. You can love your memes. I love them. It's still work. It's still time that you take off from the family, from your own hobbies, from being um up to date with severance. And I'm only on episode three of of season one, you should be able to show something for it. And for me, I did it wrong because I started with monetization with the courses. Uh the more classical approach would be to spend a year to free on gathering your followers and doing an absolute pro bono work from day one until you are ready with a digital product with a course or anything that you present to your already loyal fan base who is not expected to be monetized on. It's sort of like um Uber being under uh how do you say it selling their services underpriced just to kick into market. But for me which I think I also stand out in comparison to many content creators is that I will reply to any small message on LinkedIn regardless who sends it and what he or she says. And that can spawn into so many weird gigs. I did already mention that um student candid student student candidates screening gig but I also was I was also invited as a substitute teacher to a high school in US to teach highly gifted students product management. And let me tell you, the youngest kid there had a car had a car uh bed with anything you would expect in a 10, 12 year olds room and he was so bright that there was no difference between teaching him and a 20 25 year old product management. Those kids were amazing through the whole uh course and I loved the time with them. But I recently became a brand ambassador. I'm very open to working with partners who would like to spotlight themselves on my posts. Um I actually have to um limit those because there are weeks where I could post every day a sponsor. But this is a game of uh balance. If your audience sees that you are becoming a billboard, they will leave you. You still need to focus on value for the users. This is why I don't really like to do advertisements that are uh like full post of advertisement. That doesn't work. People don't like it. The sponsors don't get the engagement and this is very hard to pull off in a way that everyone's happy. Instead, if you have a product that solves a problem and you are okay for me to talk about the problem, say about few steps to solve it and mention you as a potential solution. That works out great because it's it's like product placement so to say. So, it's in line with the style I present while also allowing additional parties to benefit from the eyeballs. I am able to gather though again sponsored posts are always quite tricky as many products are quite niche which means that they don't uh solve the problems that resonate with the general population. So, it's it's always some risk from the people from the companies that work with us. But at least I try to be honest about it and build the expectations when we get to work together on a post. But I'm pretty happy with with how it turned so far. But again, this is this is barely scratching the surface of what I did. And if you have those 100,000 followers, then the world is a box of chocolates and you never know what will come out out of it. I have this analogy where I say that anytime you have an interaction with anyone, it's like flipping a 10,000 uh side dice where one of them represents some unique opportunity to get you better financially or skill-wise or just progress your life. However, if you take this dice and you throw it hundreds of thousands of times every month, then eventually it will roll on that one magical side that gives you a new opportunity. And this is the real value proposition for putting all that work to creating content to basically rig your life lottery because you can all you can do it all without being content creator. It's just much less likely to happen if you are not able to roll that dice enough. What an amazing way to end. Bart, thank you so much for coming on the podcast. Thank you. It was awesome to be here. I really hope you guys enjoyed that episode. It would mean a ton to me and the team if you could please subscribe on YouTube, follow on Apple and Spotify podcasts, and leave a rating and review. Those ratings and reviews really help grow the show and help other people discover the show, and they help fund the production so that we can do bigger and better productions. Can't wait to share the next episode with you. Until then, see you later.